# NBA_Parlay_Predictor
Making an app that gives you optimized predictions for nba parlays based on given context on the day (Recently trending stats, key matchup comparisons, active/inactive players, injury reports, etc.) I wanna use NBA API as well as odds-api because they offer a free 500 calls per month, figured my broke self can make that work!


# Libraries so far
1. requests
2. pandas
3. nba_api


# Work so far
I can accurately fetch the stats of a player roster and it also measures the availability of the player. This is VERY RECENT as i tested it with that Cavaliers... Donovan Mitchell just got hurt in todays game vs. Pacers and it ALREADY has him listed as inactive, i like that a lot as it will show me who i can potentially place bets on for a given day of sport bet lines on a day-to-day basis. 

For future implementation work, im guessing i can make this a daily call that checks to see which players are CURRENTLY on sites like PrizePicks or Underdog so I can specify tailored things like *recent game trends, teammates/opponents who are currently out (and how it may fluctuate usual averages), and more!* For example, let's say I choose Jimmy Butler on the Warriors. If their opponents that day (lets say the Minnesota Timberwolves) have their key primary defenders like Jaden McDaniels or Anthony Edwards out, we can look at the advanced defensive statistics to calculate their defensive impact on their team, on Jimmy Butler individually, and with their absence, how we can adjust and make a prediction on how many points Jimmy Butler is likely to score that night. Assuming his main defender (who is an elite defender) is out, Jimmy's sport betting line may have a higher probability of hitting on the over for something like points. I dont just want this to impact the O/U on points, i want this for Rebounds, Assists, and all combinations of those 3 catagories (Points + Rebounds, Points + Assists, etc.) 

Utilize key offensive and defensive metrics like player usage, defensive win shares, opponent points in paint, opponent points off turn overs, etc. all the main info i want to hyper analyze is here: https://www.nba.com/stats/players/defense?dir=D&sort=DEF_WS

Obviously i dont plan to get advanced defensive metrics on EVERY TEAM PER Request call, but dependiing on the player, i want to fetch their opponent of that days stats like that and how it would change based on whos playing on their team that night. Same logic, but for offensive with that players teammates. If a key player with high usage is out, its safe to assume a player of another pretty high usage will ALSO see an increase to their stats across the board, check this as well to make sure this metadata is reputable (Usage, Possessions, AST%, Offensive Rating, etc.): https://www.nba.com/stats/players/advanced?CF=MIN*GE*10&TeamID=0&dir=-1&sort=USG_PCT


# Future Work
1. I want to get things like recent trends (past 10 games) for points, rebounds and assists so I can get a rough estimate for how a given player has been doing. Im assuming this would be another requests scrape call of looking that the past player's data
2. I want to start coming up with a rough probability confidence score on the likelihood that a given line will hit for a upcoming game. Because i dont have up to date live bets yet ( using the-odds api to get our daily calls for this: https://the-odds-api.com/#get-access) For now i will be making a hypothetical line predictor. User input will ask the following "What team would you like to find a player to bet on?", *prints roster with details* "choose your player" *types player name* "Name your hypothetical team to go against" put the player your chose (likely a starter) in a matchup comparison against the opponent's starter in your corresponding position. I want the defensive and offensive advanced statistics to really start crunching the numbers here. Create a complex advanced algorithm using advanced math to calculate the optimal probability of whether or not our given line hits. "What line would you like to bet on" *choose points, rebounds, assits, or any combination of those 3 (example - PR)* "Whats your line?" *input your predicted line and whether or not its O/U (example 30.5 - O)* then output something like "Based on this situation, this line has the following likelihood" *92.16% probability* and if possible, display the key differences in the matchup that helped lead to the result. Like a key teammate being out leading to a usage increase, key matchup defender being out leading to a better matchup constrast, big metrics like that. This will be a LONG PIECE OF CODE, but i like this logic
3. Integrate the-odds-api into this instead of a hypthetical. Instead of typing personal inputs, the odds api should be fetching the daily lines that are already out for the day along with the current odds it has (+100, +150, stuff like that) using this, i want the user input to be able to choose one of these lines, and i want my program to do the exact calculations as step 2, but instead of a hypothetical opponent, we will be fetching this opponent from the daily games being shown on a given day. So if i choose Jimmy Butler on the warriors, and they play the Timberwolves (according to ESPN) on that day, that will be taking the place as the "hypothetical oppenent" that i had for step 2. MAKE SURE STEP 2 WORKS BEFORE YOU START STEP 3. The odds api offers 500 calls per month which is good, but i dont want to waste those calls debugging... ensure our algorithm is solid first.

## Extra thing i forgot
1. I want to include things like "Matchup History" for the last 5 times the player i choose and how they played against the opponent of their respective position. This should also be playning a factor. If Kevin Durant's PPG/APG/RPG drastically changes whenever he plays against Kawhi Leonard on the Clippers, that should play another factor in the probability in the liklihood he hits his line for that given night

2. In a worst case i cant use straight statistics to get a probability, i can always use a gemini API, openai API or huggingface ai model from a Microsoft/Meta/Google/Apple/etc. to come up with a tailored prediction based on this information. I want ALL of this key information we're using to measure our calculation to be stored and through a legitimate and reputable algorithm that consistently works. I'm almost positive THIS WILL work, but i figured going through the pain of figuring our parameters through statistics will lead to the storage of valuable metadata!

3. I wanna emphasize that this is NOT ONLY FOR HIGH PERCENTAGE PREDICTIONS!!! The calculations we're doing off of whats accesible with daily updates allows us to see THROUGH the "easy" or "risky" bet deviations that apps like Prizepicks use. IF you choose the devil horn or riskier bet, using this program will be able to give you a realistic view of how likely you are to actully hit that "riskier" bet. It may be 40%, 20%, 5%, numbers like this arent bad result per se, but rather VERY INFORMATIVE TO THE USER to see how realistic the line they choose is. A 50% probability is okay lol because thats standard betting odds. The purpose of this program is to utilize data we have on these players on a daily basis to come up with a higher likelihood of these predictions, so even a "57%" is still considered good odds even if it doesnt it, again you ARE betting, but this app is just allowing you to get a general understansing of how thorough your research is on these legs.

4. For future work, we can have a list from highest probables of the day that users can look at. So hot picks that have a high chance of hitting for a given day compared to others.